Note: 1
Title: Basic Print Function
Text: The print function is used to output data to the standard output device, which is typically the console.
It can print strings, integers, and objects.
When printing multiple items, commas can be used to separate them, which inserts a space between each item in the output.

Tags: basics,  print
Link: 
Snippet:
print("Hello,", "World!", "Age:", 30)



Note: 2
Title: List Comprehensions
Text: List comprehensions provide a concise way to create lists from existing lists or iterables.
They consist of brackets containing an expression followed by a for clause.
This method is often more readable and concise than using loops.

Tags: lists,  comprehension
Link: 
Snippet:
squares = [x**2 for x in range(10)]



Note: 3
Title: Function Definition
Text: Functions in Python are defined using the def keyword followed by a function name and parentheses.
They can take parameters and return values.
Functions are used to encapsulate reusable code in a program.

Tags: functions,  basics
Link: 
Snippet:
def add(a, b):
    return a + b



Note: 4
Title: Conditional Statements
Text: Conditional statements in Python use if, elif, and else blocks to execute different blocks of code based on certain conditions.
These are fundamental for decision-making in a program.
Conditions are evaluated in order, and the first true condition has its block executed.

Tags: conditionals,  basics
Link: 
Snippet:
if x > 10:
    print("Greater than 10")
elif x == 10:
    print("Equal to 10")
else:
    print("Less than 10")



Note: 5
Title: For Loops
Text: For loops in Python are used to iterate over a sequence, which can be a list, a tuple, or a string.
This loop repeats as many times as there are elements in the sequence.
It's one of the most common ways to iterate through data in Python.

Tags: loops,  basics
Link: 
Snippet:
for i in range(5):
    print(i)



Note: 6
Title: Dictionary Access
Text: Dictionaries in Python are collections of key-value pairs which can be accessed using square brackets with the key.
If the key is not found, a KeyError is raised.
Dictionaries are mutable and highly efficient for retrieving data.

Tags: dictionary,  data structures
Link: 
Snippet:
my_dict = {'a': 1, 'b': 2}
print(my_dict['a'])



Note: 7
Title: Try Except Block
Text: The try and except block in Python is used to catch and handle exceptions.
This block is crucial for maintaining the flow of a program and providing error handling that can respond to unexpected issues during execution.
It prevents the program from crashing by catching runtime errors.

Tags: error handling,  exceptions
Link: 
Snippet:
try:
    x = 1 / 0
except ZeroDivisionError:
    print("Cannot divide by zero.")



Note: 8
Title: List Slicing
Text: Slicing in Python allows you to extract a part of a list by specifying a start and an end index.
The start index is inclusive, while the end index is exclusive.
This technique is very handy for obtaining sublists.

Tags: lists,  slicing
Link: 
Snippet:
my_list = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
sliced_list = my_list[1:3]  # Gets items from index 1 to 2



Note: 9
Title: File Reading
Text: Reading from files in Python is commonly done using the with statement, which ensures that the file is properly closed after its suite finishes.
The open() function is used to open the file in a specified mode, e.g., 'r' for reading.
This method is secure and efficient for handling file operations.

Tags: files,  io
Link: 
Snippet:
with open('file.txt', 'r') as file:
    contents = file.read()



Note: 10
Title: Lambda Functions
Text: Lambda functions are small anonymous functions defined with the lambda keyword.
They can have any number of arguments but only one expression.
They are often used for short, simple functions that are convenient to define at the point where they are called.

Tags: functions,  lambda
Link: 
Snippet:
square = lambda x: x**2
print(square(5))



